[Music]
all right so this is my review of the
flow x13 from asus it's this mini laptop
that can connect to an external gpu
that's equipped with an rtx
3080. it's a very powerful combination
and it's something a little bit
different
and a lot of times when companies come
out with something that's a little bit
different
the product falls short of expectations
right it sounds cool on paper and then i
get it in i review and it's like
it's not that cool this time
it's it's something else this is a very
it's just so cool let's get in now this
system
is running amd's new cpus it's their
hs it's an 8 core cpu 35 watt and it
pushes out performance that i have not
seen before
not just in a mini laptop like this but
even regular gaming laptops
equipped with intel stuff these new amd
chips are
amazing and this device is an incredible
showcase of what amd can do
with their new processors super thin
super portable and yet
it crushes if you have any kind of
workflow that can take advantage of a
lot of cpu cores
you're gonna like the performance on
this machine now this is equipped with
well there's two gpus in here there's
the gpu that's baked onto the amd
apu itself like the radeon stuff but i'm
gonna focus
on the gtx 1650 that's equipped in here
so this isn't
the main gpu like this is the big stuff
but if you're in a pinch
and you're just using this laptop on the
road and you have to
do some graphically capable stuff it
does have
a usable gpu so i did some video editing
and some light gaming on this
and it's not bad it's not going to be as
good as the rtx 3080. we'll get into
that in a second
but it's usable and thermally it does
really well for such a thin
and light device now the exterior of it
is made with a magnesium alloy so the
top panel
and the bottom panel are both made with
this tanky and
durable feeling material which i like to
see the inside panel however like the
keyboard deck
this i think is a plastic finish and
like the top of it has
a smooth finish but the bottom area like
the wrist rest area
has this ribbed texture to it so it
makes this sound when you rub it the
wrong way or poke at it the wrong way
but yeah i think it's a comfortable
keyboard to type on in terms of the
keyboard deck
the layout itself i'm partial to it i
like
this kind of asus keyboard layout i've
always liked it
the arrow keys are in a good spot and
there's no weird shift positioning
it's a comfortable layout for a 13 inch
device and the back lighting
is this simple white back lighting you
can't change the colors or
anything of that sort now the trackpad
this has a smooth finish despite the
appearance of that ribbed texture again
it's a little small i think it's
somewhat expected on a device like this
because the package is small
but most laptops nowadays have much
larger trackpads than this
it gets the job done but if you're
someone who's very gesture dependent
like if you do a lot of stuff that's
gesture based
you might find this thing a little
cramped but tracking and
the button mechanics are good okay let's
get onto the screen
this is a 16 by 10 aspect ratio so it's
a little bit
taller than your regular screen it's
thin bezel good colors
but it doesn't get bright like it's
reasonably bright i just wish it got way
brighter and especially for a premium
device like this
i feel like it should be brighter now
this one is a 4k panel at 60 hertz they
do make
a if i'm not mistaken a 1080p panel that
is 120 hertz now if i had to give a
recommendation if you're somehow in the
fortunate position of choosing between
the two screens
i would definitely opt for the 1080p
panel like
you can play games on a little bit
better but at this screen size 13 inches
you're not really taking advantage of a
4k panel unless you got some very
specific needs like
your photo editing and that's like
that's all you do all day long
then maybe go for this one but most
people i'd go for the 1080p panel
there is a webcam at the top it's only
720p but the image looks pretty clean
and if you want to you can tilt the
whole screen back all the way and it
becomes this
two-in-one tablet-y type device now
personally i've never
enjoyed using this type of computing
device i get it there's a lot of people
that do like if you're a student
it has pen support and all that stuff
it's just not something i ever do
but if you want to it has all the you
know tent mode and presentation mode
all the things you would normally do
with a flippy
screen like this uh let's get into
the good stuff actually before we get
there we got to talk about ports because
it's
connected literally okay so there's two
usb-a
that's a lie there's one usb-a and two
usb-c now the
usb-c on this side is part of the
proprietary plug that connects
to the external gpu so if you're not
connecting this thing
you can just use it as a second use pc
you can power it through the
ac adapter use pc but if you want to
when it's time
you can connect it to this external gpu
and this is where this product really
shines
so this is an rtx 3080 equipped
box it's very small i think this is just
under a kilogram
and so that's 2.2 pounds and it's
crazy powerful and crazy small and crazy
quiet for what this thing is able to
deliver so
to connect it up you it's
as you would expect you connect it into
the port
and you flick the switch to lock it and
then the software prompt will pop up be
like do you want to connect it
and you hit yes and now you're connected
now there is a bit of a wait time it's
like
10 or 12 seconds it's not instant but
once the connection is complete you're
now connected to a
laptop rtx 3080 with 16 gigs of ram and
this thing runs with 150
watts of gpu juice right into it like
the box
is 280 watts that's like to power the
system
and to power the gpu but it's a 150 watt
rtx 3080 inside there in case you're
wondering
performance is fantastic it's super fast
like
super super fast it can't keep up with
desktop grade components though right if
you grab a regular rtx 3080
from a pc build and you compare to this
this is definitely slower than
a regular rtx 3080 it's even slower than
a rtx 3070
but considering what's going on here in
150 watt
package that is small and quiet and
relatively portable
this thing is pretty impressive the
connection is proprietary so you are
dependent on
asus to make new ones of these right if
you know two years from now you want to
have
an upgrade to your system if you are so
fortunate to own this thing
you need asus to make another one of
these within our own rtx
4080 or whatever that happens in the
future you need them to do it you can't
upgrade this thing yourself at least not
from what i saw when opening it we'll
pop it open a second
but the power cable or the connection
cable
powers the system as well as the
bandwidth for the gpu if you want to
disconnect it like you want to remove
your laptop and leave
from this gpu you have to click it in
software to let it know
before you do the disconnection process
now internally you can see the power
supply it's 280 watts it's actually
pretty small for that wattage
but the gpu component cannot be upgraded
yourself it's like something that's
completely proprietary to asus
so you can't just upgrade this on your
own unless you got some
serious engineering skills when you open
up the laptop
the ram and the wi-fi card are baked on
you can't upgrade or swap that
and the ssd it's reasonably fast
but it's a shorty so if you want to
upgrade if you want like a bigger
ssd it's not the easiest thing to find
like there's definitely options out
there but
they're not as common as a full 2280
this is a
2230 i believe the battery down here 62
watt hours
and it's okay like
i feel like on a device like this
because it's got that two-in-one
capability and
it's theoretically possible that the
student want to bring this to school or
someone want to bring this to work
it doesn't last long enough for what i
would consider to be like a full day
battery
i got six hours just under six hours on
my regular test so screen it 250 nits
with regular browsing and stuff like
that
it's okay but i do have the 4k panel so
if you had the
1080p panel it probably go to seven and
a half hours as my guess maybe seven
but that is battery life and
okay i think that basically wraps up
this review i want to talk about
pricing and just kind of the value
proposition of this thing this is not a
cheap product i believe it comes in at
32.99 it is
one of the most expensive laptop-based
products i've ever had on this channel
but two things to keep in mind number
one there's no one else that makes
this a super powerful mini laptop
combined with a
super powerful external gpu like this
package
as expensive as it is is unique and i
guess number two
when you have the world's only this
you can charge whatever you want it's
unfortunate that it's expensive but
it really is like when you have the
unicorn you can charge a billion dollars
to that unicorn
it's a very unique product and it's
clearly not for everyone but i also want
to present this
other kind of scenario because i think a
lot of people are looking at this and
like
okay for that kind of money you could
buy a really good laptop
and build a really good pc for seven
dollars
you could just have both right so why
would you have
why would you do this why would you
spend all of your money on just one
super versatile but very expensive
products and i don't have an answer for
that i feel like this
is going to make sense to the person
like there's going to be people out
there that see this and like this
is specifically what i want or
specifically what i need not
the laptop and desktop combination they
want this because it does
provide a level of versatility that you
just can't do with
the the setup that i mentioned
previously it is super cool like
unbelievably powerful for what this
thing delivers and the weight that this
whole package
comes in but it's so expensive
and yeah i mean if i had the money i
know it'd be tempted because this is
such
a cool product okay hope you guys
enjoyed this video thumbs if you liked
it subs if you loved it i'll see you
guys next time